---
type: newsletter
title: 'Techstructive Weekly #79'
date: 2026-01-31
slug: techstructive-weekly-79
tags: 
source_url: 'https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-79'
hash: 4e9559f10d7271689056e39db46838dec42ca033b627c94f115135ae29b5b8ee
---
<h2>Week #79</h2><p>It was a tiring lazy week, honestly. I am not not-excited. I am excited, but it feels pointless. Like swimming in a pool where people are crowded. I don&#8217;t know what I am saying but building things has never been easier and the floor is open but the barrier to reach user is still the same.</p><p>This weekend I would like to complete some unfinished things vibe coded projects and put it out. I already have completed one, there is one in progress, the last one will complete and consolidate it as my thing and put in the web. I love these times.</p><h3>Quote of the week</h3><blockquote><p>&#8220;The bigger the goal, the bigger the hurdles, you&#8217;ll be surrounded sure, but keep the fire flickering, you might die giving a hope for someone behind&#8221;</p></blockquote><p>I think this is true. I have bigger dreams, ambitions, maybe bigger responsibilities. But that doesn&#8217;t give me an excuse to give up. Time and time again, I am shattered, broken and bamboozled with problems coming out from nowhere. I still keep on the hunt, I can still see the prey, I need to move one step at a time.</p><p>I think its arguably evident that the bigger the calling (call me religious or philosophical, but I believe it) the bigger the forces to stop you from doing it. It can be a deadly weapon, every weapon is two sided. Blessing can become a curse in a flick of thought. We need to understand the core idea of the decision and then track back to our intentions.</p><div><hr></div><h2>Created (Vibe Coded/AI-Assisted Coding)</h2><ul><li><p>CMS Finally working with Netlify Cloud Functions + Hugo</p><ul><li><p>I finally spent time to fix my link blog setup. I made sure the weekend it was smooth, frictionless as possible, and exportable in markdown.</p></li><li><p>The post I add on CMS gets saved to DB, the cronjob on github action picks up the saved post in the past 6 hours and adds a file in the repo.</p></li><li><p>This builds a fresh site every six hours at <a href="https://notes-meetgor-com.vercel.app/links/">https://notes-meetgor-com.vercel.app/links/</a> which I&#8217;ll port to my own site at <a href="http://meetgor.com">meetgor.com</a></p></li><li><p>It was fun, I did it like a ralph loop with Amp Code. It was fast. I use Amp code just because its fast. Not necessarily smarter, but it has some edge on Gemini CLI for sure.</p></li></ul></li></ul><p>I would be vibing this weekend for making some products end to end. I have been inspired by some people at my org, leading from the front. I love to be in such a place and am blessed to be here. Would like to show and prove that I too want to see success.</p><h2>Read</h2><ol><li><p><a href="https://blog.eliperkins.com/one-year-with-kagi/">One Year with Kagi &#183; Blog &#183; Eli Perkins</a></p><ul><li><p>This is nice, a good insight actually.</p><ul><li><p>Don&#8217;t outsource thinking by reading the AI overview from LLMs</p></li><li><p>Human curated lists are often good and better for your brain than AI slop</p></li><li><p>Search engines already have biases in them, by putting AI they are adding a new dimension to the biasness</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Kagi is something I have installed on my phone but didn&#8217;t quite use it. I think I am getting lazy and am taken away in the habit of reading the AI overview which is one click away.</p></li><li><p>Need to rewire it back to good old days with Kagi it seems. But there is also a counter point of searching and getting information effectively maybe that is partially true if we are outsourcing our analytical thinking in searching and skimming by reading less articles.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://jvns.ca/blog/2026/01/27/some-notes-on-starting-to-use-django/">Some notes on starting to use Django</a></p><ul><li><p>I wonder if django is like unintentionally made for LLMs</p></li><li><p>It has everything suitable for context</p><ul><li><p>great docs</p></li><li><p>2 decades of stack overflow questions</p></li><li><p>robust and explicit</p></li><li><p>not exceptionally magical</p></li></ul></li><li><p>It just makes sense, its like a mechanical part of a system, others might hide complexity or maybe too verbose</p></li><li><p>But django just hits the harness the right I think. I have read couple of articles on this and I think it makes sense.</p></li><li><p>Though for now I favor golang instead of django why? type system. You can add pydantic or mypy in django but out of the box support is where I am inclined towards for now.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://atmoio.substack.com/p/after-two-years-of-vibecoding-im">After two years of vibecoding, I&#8217;m back to writing by hand</a></p><ul><li><p>True, maybe. It feels it kind of trashes the way through the solution rather than path finding to a solution</p></li><li><p>The image is so well presented, the idea hits home.</p></li><li><p>Though I think only certain people are able to get value out of it, its a skill issue which eventually everyone will cope with in the end.</p></li><li><p>Not sure how well good or bad it is, it seems to be fading out now.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://mistral.ai/products/vibe">AI coding agents for enterprises | Mistral AI</a></p><ul><li><p>This is finally something I have been waiting for.</p></li><li><p>An agent free, to run. Remote agent.</p></li><li><p>Claude Code, Codex, Opencode, require some paid tier.</p></li><li><p>This looks like I can finally use one from my phone.</p></li><li><p>Jules surely is there but its so buggy and just halts for no reason, not reliable enough. Might make my own agent.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.tensorlake.ai/blog/agentic-table-merging">Agentic Table Merging | Tensorlake</a></p><ul><li><p>This looks really interesting.</p></li><li><p>Very close to the problems that I am solving. People are trying hard on agents and this I thought was far fetched, but maybe not. Agents are the way.</p></li><li><p>We need to find the way through agents and not out of it.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="http://AGENTS.md">AGENTS.md</a><a href="https://vercel.com/blog/agents-md-outperforms-skills-in-our-agent-evals"> outperforms skills in vercel&#8217;s agent evals</a></p><ul><li><p>Passive context (<a href="http://AGENTS.md">AGENTS.md</a>) currently outperforms active retrieval (skills)</p></li><li><p>Skills are still useful for vertical, action-specific workflows</p></li><li><p>I think I can say that LLMs are bad at reliably picking tools, skills, or docs. If the information is needed, make it always present rather than calling it separately. The best results for this eval came from removing choices, and ambiguity</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://openai.com/index/inside-our-in-house-data-agent/">Inside OpenAI&#8217;s in-house data agent</a></p><ul><li><p>Instead of requiring analysts to manually explore dozens of tables or write intricate SQL, the agent lets them ask plain-English questions and get high-quality, correct data insights in minutes instead of days.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://fly.io/blog/litestream-writable-vfs/">Litestream writable VFS</a></p><ul><li><p>The big thing I learned is that SQLite can now pretend your database lives locally while secretly pulling just the tiny pieces it needs from object storage, on demand.</p></li><li><p>That means apps can start instantly, even with huge databases, and only hydrate the data they want which is wild if you&#8217;re used to slow restores or heavy disks. Wow</p></li><li><p>Instead of copying data to compute before you can do anything, you let compute skim data lazily and write back carefully. It&#8217;s a clever trick, bending old constraints without breaking SQLite&#8217;s mental model, Flyio cooks wired and quite intruiging stuff.</p></li></ul></li></ol><h2>Watched</h2><ol><li><p><a href="https://laracasts.com/series/the-laracasts-snippet/episodes/10">Laracast: I&#8217;m Done</a></p><ul><li><p>Laracast cut off 40% of the workforce, sad again AI in the hunt, after tailwind this is sad.</p></li><li><p>They are producing more content but the way he thinks about code is changing.</p></li><li><p>The important thing that hits me is <strong>Agentic Coding doesn&#8217;t drain mind</strong>. Is this true? I don&#8217;t think so. I feel like when I used to program, I thought about what to do, then plan it out, and actually writing the code would give me a buffer, a mental buffer to calm my mind from the actual cognition, it triggered a different part of my brain. But right now with agentic coding, the phase is too short, and it doens&#8217;t trigger different parts of the brain, I have to review code which I am learning to, but it feels like I am getting too much load on the thinking part without actually taking a detox from it. It might be just me but this I need to change.</p></li><li><p>Maybe this was the next iteration of programming, no one knows, but a good thing to see people admit.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/iV1EcfZSdCM">Which Programming language for AI</a></p><ul><li><p>I was wondering the same, but I read something like LLMs are good at typed languages. Its not quite true though it seems. Rust and C++ should be shining here, if that was the case.</p></li><li><p>It actually depends on the ecosystem and the core principles of the language and not just the technical features of the language.</p></li></ul></li></ol><ul><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/uWqno4HM4xA">DHH: Why AI isn&#8217;t writing my code yet!</a></p><ul><li><p>Oh Yeah! Oh no! I thought it was LLMs don&#8217;t feel good to code, but the answer was awkward. He is previleged (earned not luck) with the luxury to be in a position where he can code with hand chisels, rest of us have to slog with LLMs to make our day job.</p></li><li><p>Its a harsh reality, the writing code part is becoming a hobby rather than a job I think. The vibe-slop cleaner is more of a job now-a-days.</p></li><li><p>I love problem solving but sometimes AI is too fast for me to walk, I can&#8217;t run all the time, I am not saying I am lazy, but writing was the perfect thing to spend my time thinking and tinkering, LLMs seems to take away that time and replace it with hollowness and existential threat.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Learnt</h2><ul><li><p>Elixir is a better programming language for LLMs to understand and reason with</p><ul><li><p>Its quite easy to read and understand, everything is immutable makes it hard to shot yourself on the foot</p></li><li><p>C# is also a good contender, not just the language design, but more so due to community and documentation.</p></li><li><p>I am coming to realize that having a great language is not a technical feat, but a mutual agreement between usage and depth. Like LLMs struggle with Rust too due to too verbose and cult like culture. Golang is not quite impressive as Elixir due to lack of proper documentation and tooling. Python is a sandbag, filled with good and bad examples on the internet.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Coding and Reviewing are like Writing and Reading, you need to do both</p><ul><li><p>Coding is a mechanical task, you can get away with it and feel good</p></li><li><p>Reviewing on the other hand is not a straightforward approach, you might feel good, you might feel dejected, you may learn something, you may waste time, its quite a bag.</p></li><li><p>You can&#8217;t keep doing one and expect things to change, you need to balance both.</p></li><li><p>Just like reading and writing, you need to feel inspired after writing, or get your thoughts out after having a giant reading spree. Both are needed, don&#8217;t become a elitist in either of them, you can have taste in one of them, but don&#8217;t overlook the other.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Tech News</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://www.kimi.com/blog/kimi-k2-5.html">Moonshot AI releases Kimi K2.5</a></p><ul><li><p>The model seems good. I love the way it reads. I hate when GPTsque models give list after list. This model just reads like a breeze. But oh they have improved the coding side of it. Nice side quest.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/google-deepmind/project-genie/">Google DeepMind releases Genie</a></p><ul><li><p>This is quite a good thing from Google. They are starting to explore world models. Which could be a incremental steps after LLMs</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://x.ai/news/grok-imagine-api">GrokAI releases the API for Imagine</a></p><ul><li><p>This is a controversial feature, I don&#8217;t like the direction of Grok on that feature, it&#8217;s quite unchained and unguarded. Opposite of Anthropic, Its like a Slytherin vs Gryffindor. I am not liking when I say Anthropic is like Gryffindor but after Grok is doing I need to.</p></li></ul></li></ul><p>For more news, follow the <a href="https://buttondown.com/hacker-newsletter/archive/780/">Hackernewsletter</a> (#780th edition), and for software development/coding articles, join <a href="http://daily.dev">daily.dev</a>.</p><div><hr></div><p>That&#8217;s it from this week, it was a slow week, had a long weekend, but looking forward for a new week and a new month. A perfect month.</p><p>Happy Coding :)</p><p></p><p class="button-wrapper" data-attrs="{&quot;url&quot;:&quot;https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-79/comments&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Leave a comment&quot;,&quot;action&quot;:null,&quot;class&quot;:null}" data-component-name="ButtonCreateButton"><a class="button primary" href="https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-79/comments"><span>Leave a comment</span></a></p><p class="button-wrapper" data-attrs="{&quot;url&quot;:&quot;https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-79?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Share&quot;,&quot;action&quot;:null,&quot;class&quot;:null}" data-component-name="ButtonCreateButton"><a class="button primary" href="https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-79?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share"><span>Share</span></a></p><div class="subscription-widget-wrap-editor" data-attrs="{&quot;url&quot;:&quot;https://techstructively.substack.com/subscribe?&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Subscribe&quot;,&quot;language&quot;:&quot;en&quot;}" data-component-name="SubscribeWidgetToDOM"><div class="subscription-widget show-subscribe"><div class="preamble"><p class="cta-caption">Thanks for reading Techstructive Weekly! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work.</p></div><form class="subscription-widget-subscribe"><input type="email" class="email-input" name="email" placeholder="Type your email&#8230;" tabindex="-1"><input type="submit" class="button primary" value="Subscribe"><div class="fake-input-wrapper"><div class="fake-input"></div><div class="fake-button"></div></div></form></div></div><p></p>