---
type: newsletter
title: "Techstructive Weekly #80"
date: 2026-02-06
slug: newsletter/2026-02-06-techstructive-weekly-80
tags: ["newsletter", "substack"]
canonical_url: https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-80
status: published
---

<h2>Week #80</h2><p>It was a exciting week. I went to co-working space which felt like ages. Created something meaningful with ai-assisted coding, and it worked charms. It helped get out of a dry slump and make better impact with code. Its me, in my mood, when I have the fire, nothing survives in front of me. Just that the fire is lost in the mundane dance of life, it throws you in valleys you never knew existed or had planned for.</p><p>Back to a grind of coding with LLMs. This week a lock in mode to ship 3 projects. Let&#8217;s see and what I can come up with. Maybe I&#8217;ll write an article about how my experience has been so far.</p><p>Lots of possibilities and exciting times ahead. Get out of your limited thinking, and just sit with your mind, negotiate and build good habits.</p><h3>Quote of the week</h3><blockquote><p>Ram is the heart, Krishna is the mind</p></blockquote><p>In the battle of kalyug, <a href="https://www.youtube.com/shorts/zMoBXkg4o68">the heart is like ram and the mind is like Krishna</a>. This is really beautifully put. You have the best of the previous two generations fighting against each other. One on the right path, the other on the right mindset. Both are important, none is completely outruled. You need peaceful mind, for that you need a pure heart like Ram, but people will take advantage of it, without a right mind, you cannot be at peace. You&#8217;ll have to survive the duel between the both, don&#8217;t get caught in the trap of helplessness, decide when to act and when to restrain. The person who can be both at the right time, is the winner here.</p><div><hr></div><h2>Created</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://dev.meetgor.com/daily-token/archive/2026/02/01/newspaper.html">The Daily Token</a> Newspaper like blog</p><ul><li><p>I used meta-ai llm free, and some vibe coded slop to make it. I felt good. Used Gemini and Amp to make it.</p></li><li><p>The meta-ai just stopped working the moment I created this page. I have to patch the library to make it work now.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://github.com/mr-destructive/gemini-proxy">Gemini Reverse Engineered Client</a></p><ul><li><p>Gemini is the only now that offers free limited chat without bot detection. At least as of 6th February 2026. It can change the moment I post something, such is the speed of shipping of people now.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Youtube Cookie session Exporter</p><ul><li><p>This is something I felt good building, atleast watching. I made it so that, I can copy a session from my un-authenticated profiles of browser and transfer it anywhere I want to browse feeds and take a different spin on it.</p></li><li><p>I discovered that the expiry of these tokens is 6 months.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Read</h2><ol><li><p><a href="https://www.jernesto.com/articles/thinking_hard">I miss thinking hard</a></p><ul><li><p>Boy! That hits like truck. Absolutely relatable. We can share that part of our mind, it lives rent free on my mind. How to balance the builder and the thinker part of my brain.</p></li><li><p>I also had feelings like actually typing the code gave me the time to think about it, but now the time between prolonged thinking is just squishing like thin line. Its getting too much building and no thinking or taking a step back.</p></li><li><p>Maybe that is how we will move forward, but it doesn&#8217;t look sustainable. Developers will burn out and eventually give into AI slop. But here we are learning to deal with them at the moment, and it seems we need to find a way around and through them and not out of them.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://steveklabnik.com/writing/the-most-important-thing-when-working-with-llms/">The most important thing while working with LLMs</a></p><ul><li><p>This makes sense. Just like children, when you say something, they will go wild and try to interpret what you actually meant to do, they will circumvene around the instruction bt won&#8217;t quite follow your exact instruction. Its not controlling, its programming the model.</p></li><li><p>The process of making it faster by breaking the steps into parallel is quite interesting. Not sure if everything can be done that way, we would spend so much time in thinking about how to break the problem which is half of the solving part.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://mitchellh.com/writing/my-ai-adoption-journey">My AI adoption journey by Mitchel Hashimoto</a></p><ul><li><p>That was a banger of a post. True and Honest.</p></li><li><p>Chatbot interface was a good gateway drug to ai-assisted coding, but its not quite a good one, move on to agents with cli or tool access.</p></li><li><p>Check if it can do what you can do, that is a good advice and pratical one. It gives you the taste of what can work and what cannot. I have done it myself for one of scripts to get metrics from logs, all of which I could do in half an hour, but with agents and right context, I can now do it in minutes. But that took some time to understand what to give it, and what to not.</p></li><li><p>Keep an agent running, think about what you could be doing but can delegate. This is quite a good advice given how smart they can get given the right context and tools.</p></li><li><p>Do the work, till the agent does its. Don&#8217;t delegate and chill. Forming skills is something still valuable as a human.</p></li></ul></li></ol><ul><li><p>That is damn point</p></li></ul><blockquote><p>Well, you&#8217;re trading off: not forming skills for the tasks you&#8217;re delegating to the agent while continuing to form skills naturally in the tasks you continue to work on manually.</p></blockquote><ul><li><ul><li><p>Use <a href="http://agents.md">agents.md</a>, skills or whatever the harness can use best. Its a ongoing process but don&#8217;t get caught up for long in old ways.</p></li><li><p>Always have an agent running (maybe just one). That is a bold advice. And this leaves me with disagreement for quite a subtle reason. It can feel like I am missing out on something if an agent is not running, seems like wasting precious time in making something, which is not a bad feeling to have, but can ruin the day.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Watched</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f2FnYRP5kC4">Theo in Opus 4.5 with Skills: The best model for frontend design is...</a></p><ul><li><p>That was cool. I didn&#8217;t knew Gemini was that good without skills at frontend design. Need to actually try it out.</p></li><li><p>Also its quite comical that a single md file can steer a atrocious model like opus 4.5 at design into a marvelous tasteful designer.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qKf9sgKFQLU">Theo on Codex: OpenAI just dropped their Cursor killer</a></p><ul><li><p>This is perfect for me, i have 5+ tabs of agents running on the terminal with cursor-agent cli. I crash the system very hard. This is really smart thinking.</p></li><li><p>I thought of making terminal interface for the vibe coding a particular prompt into multiple models as worktrees. But this is taking into a different league.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6OXE65fjjsU">ThePrimeagent on Moltbook failing</a></p><ul><li><p>Yeah! That was just a open database. Humans manipulated to make it look like llms did it. What a shame to be a human. Why do they need to make it act like agents did it, if they can&#8217;t then simply say so, and even if they can&#8217;t its not of any use.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cTJbjM0T_Fs">Theo on Moltbook situation</a></p><ul><li><p>He was clearly hyped about it. It felt like sci-fi to me when I watched it. But the next day we say the crash, the reveal of the project.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Learnt</h2><ul><li><p>Skills/just markdown files can make LLMs better</p><ul><li><p>I saw this with Clawd bot or moltbot or openclaw or whatever you want to call it. The molthub or moltbook is based on just a single markdown file.</p></li><li><p>This is just mind-boggling like reading a passage from scifi book. The transition to scifi from normal mundane human life was just a matter of a text file. Damm! That lasted for a day, but it was a good run.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Agentically using LLMs is the way to go</p><ul><li><p>I created something that increased the metrics by 15% and I was really happy, keeping the cost at bay and increasing the numbers which was like very hairy problem. That was with agentic coding.</p></li><li><p>Love to see that how things will turn out in the future.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Cursor doesn&#8217;t count tokens used in the agent-cli in the analytics page</p><ul><li><p>I use agent-cli all the day, and I was in the bottom 10 of the organisation chart of cusor usage. I was like what the heck?</p></li><li><p>Cursor cannot configure its analytics right, Its not just me you know. Only two people would get this line.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Sharepoint deletes links after 90 days of subscription cancellation</p><ul><li><p>Yes, this is subtle but very ridiculous from Microsoft. It makes sense, because then whats the point of the subscription if you can revive your files anytime, after years and months.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Tech News</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://openai.com/index/introducing-the-codex-app/">OpenAI releases Codex agent management GUI</a></p><ul><li><p>This is something solid and I am looking for something similar to this from open source community.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-opus-4-6">Anthropic drops Claude 4.6</a></p><ul><li><p>Hhh? We were expecting Sonnet 5, but what a surprise drop from Anthropic. Did it not succeed at the evals or was it worse from the intended score?</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://openai.com/index/introducing-gpt-5-3-codex/">OpenAI drops GPT 5.3</a></p><ul><li><p>Surprise. How can OpenAI have 0.3 versions. I have never seen 2.3, 3.3, 4.3 but a 5.3 very well, very well. Looks like the plateau of models is inevitable</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://mistral.ai/news/voxtral-transcribe-2">Mistral releases Voxtral 2 transcribe</a></p><ul><li><p>Mistral struggling as always from the beginning.</p></li></ul></li></ul><div><hr></div><p>For more news, follow the <a href="https://buttondown.com/hacker-newsletter/archive/781/">Hackernewsletter</a> (#781st edition), and for software development/coding articles, join <a href="http://daily.dev">daily.dev</a>.</p><p>That&#8217;s it from this long, energizing week. Talking to people helps. Its not what we would do by automating, its a question is what can be automated and what should not be. AI is changing things fast and quick. Developers are at the forefront of it. Can&#8217;t be more blessed with a perfect time.</p><p class="button-wrapper" data-attrs="{&quot;url&quot;:&quot;https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-80/comments&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Leave a comment&quot;,&quot;action&quot;:null,&quot;class&quot;:null}" data-component-name="ButtonCreateButton"><a class="button primary" href="https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-80/comments"><span>Leave a comment</span></a></p><div class="captioned-button-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;url&quot;:&quot;https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-80?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Share&quot;}" data-component-name="CaptionedButtonToDOM"><div class="preamble"><p class="cta-caption">Thanks for reading Techstructive Weekly! This post is public so feel free to share it.</p></div><p class="button-wrapper" data-attrs="{&quot;url&quot;:&quot;https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-80?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Share&quot;}" data-component-name="ButtonCreateButton"><a class="button primary" href="https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-80?utm_source=substack&utm_medium=email&utm_content=share&action=share"><span>Share</span></a></p></div><div class="subscription-widget-wrap-editor" data-attrs="{&quot;url&quot;:&quot;https://techstructively.substack.com/subscribe?&quot;,&quot;text&quot;:&quot;Subscribe&quot;,&quot;language&quot;:&quot;en&quot;}" data-component-name="SubscribeWidgetToDOM"><div class="subscription-widget show-subscribe"><div class="preamble"><p class="cta-caption">Thanks for reading Techstructive Weekly! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work.</p></div><form class="subscription-widget-subscribe"><input type="email" class="email-input" name="email" placeholder="Type your email&#8230;" tabindex="-1"><input type="submit" class="button primary" value="Subscribe"><div class="fake-input-wrapper"><div class="fake-input"></div><div class="fake-button"></div></div></form></div></div><p></p>
