---
title: "Techstructive Weekly #82"
date: 2026-02-20
slug: techstructive-weekly-82
type: newsletter
status: published
source: newsletter
canonical_url: https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-82
description: "Agentic Coding taking over hand crafted coding, the inevitable seems to be happening, among the other things read, watches and learnt from the week of 15th to 21st February 2026"
tags: ["newsletter", "substack"]
---

<h2>Week #82</h2><p>A pretty heavy week. Things getting cooked up for developers. Shift in how to develop features. It feels a bit awkward that management people are teaching developers how to code now. Wired times. The craft is officially dead, long live code writing by hand.</p><p>I am sad, but not that sad. It feels like something valuable is being snatched from my hands, but something more powerful is given back, but I don&#8217;t know how to process it. Just like when our parents have mobile phone in their hands for the first time. Or we have rubiks cube in our hands. Its quite a powerful tool, LLMs. For that I don&#8217;t have a brainpower to process what it spits out, the steering and orchestrating are the skills that developer like me lack like shit and this is exactly what we are put in.</p><p>I am ready for a change. I don&#8217;t resist it, its just a wired times where all are learning how to play with them and nobody knows what and how to deal with them. They think they know if they have gotten one or two projects right, but the models are evolving at a lightning fast speed. Keeping up with all of that is a chaos.</p><h3>Quote of the week</h3><blockquote><p>&#8220;A bird sitting on a tree is never afraid of the branch breaking, because its trust is not on the branch but on its own wings.&#8221; &#8213; <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/7207237-a-bird-sitting-on-a-tree-is-never-afraid-of">Charlie Wardle, Understanding &amp; Building Confidence</a></p></blockquote><p>Great quote. And rightly so for todays developer facing the dilemma of AI threat. Do you trust your fundamental skills or AI&#8217;s next token prediction? That quote just liberated me from that question. And honestly it came naturally, I accidentally stumbled on bing search due to a link opened on my browser to it, and I clicked on home, but it redirected me to the quote of the day and it was that. Wild! But yes, we need to trust the learning that we have gained so far, the hardships, the errors and bugs we have solved so far. I sound like cringe right? But for a developer battling and grappling with these questions is in need of these words to help him understand he is not alone. Everyone is figuring things out, everyone is one that kind of branch which can collapse anytime, might not, but you have wings you know how to code, so don&#8217;t you worry. You can fly if things break you, a bird never things aeroplanes can threaten them. Do they?</p><div><hr></div><h2>Created</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://github.com/mr-destructive/gcp-log-explorer-tui">GCP Log Explorer TUI</a></p><ul><li><p>This was a long due project. Finally made the courage to throw it with full force. Its not complete but is way better than what I would have imagined, it is functional and has a ton of options. Maybe I need to think again of the UI elements and decisions, but its a good start.</p></li><li><p>I built it with amp for the initial scafold, its quite fast it churned the full project within 10-20 minutes. Then it was broken badly, nothing was working. I handed over to codex with the tmux capture test idea and it just ripped the project apart for 1 hour and gave that project that we have right now. 0 lines of code touched by me. Mind boggling.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>ClickUp TUI</p><ul><li><p>ClickUp oh dear! The time I might have waited for it to load, would have been the equal amount of time writing in the clickup space. The UI is horrifyingly slow.</p></li><li><p>I though TUI might help, but I think I am getting proven wrong by themselves, their API seems to be slow and the UI bloat is baggage burden.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Read</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://davidoks.blog/p/why-im-not-worried-about-ai-job-loss">Why I am not worried about AI job loss</a></p><ul><li><p>Humans will still be the bottleneck. I kind of agree to that. Because in the end it is humans who will perceive the tasks, they can&#8217;t have super-intelligence if none of the people who work with it are even intelligent.</p></li><li><p>Guys, learning is going to be quite critical. The past couple of years have changed the way we perceive learning. I think we are getting into a trap of outsourcing the thinking and eventually learning to LLMs, which is looking a bad direction, and the turn needs to be as steep as possible to get back on track.</p></li><li></li></ul></li></ul><blockquote><p>&#8220;GPT-3 has been out for six years; GPT-4 for three; and none of that has happened. Even in the outsourced customer service sector, the lowest-hanging fruit on the automation tree, we&#8217;re just not yet seeing mass layoffs due to AI. I&#8217;ll be frank in telling you that this has been a huge surprise to me. (<a href="https://x.com/KelseyTuoc/status/2021371929748439293?s=20">And to others.</a>) There is change, but it is gradual; it looks more like standard technological diffusion than a tsunami of replacement. And we should think seriously about why this has been the case.&#8221;</p></blockquote><ul><li><ul><li><p>This quoted paragraph gives me hope to continue learning more.</p></li><li></li></ul></li></ul><blockquote><p>&#8220;people have responded by spending <a href="https://x.com/tenobrus/status/2021784128279261487?s=20">much more time coding</a> than they used to, because the latent demand for software is so enormous.<a href="https://davidoks.blog/p/why-im-not-worried-about-ai-job-loss#footnote-1-187776865">1</a>&#8220;</p></blockquote><ul><li><ul><li><p>This I must say is true again.</p></li><li></li></ul></li></ul><blockquote><p>&#8220;If we don&#8217;t need jobs, we&#8217;ll still invent them&#8221;</p></blockquote><ul><li><ul><li><p>Yeah! That is the spirit, that is the mindset people need to inculcate, and not panic or get lost in the existential dread. I am saying this to myself, because written words have power over vague mind conversations.</p></li><li><p>Its going to be fine. Humans will live or die, either ways, it doesn&#8217;t even have a 0.000000001 % or 10^-100000000000000000 effect on the universe.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://hatchet.run/blog/tuis-are-easy-now">Building TUIs in easier now</a></p><ul><li><p>Banger! Banger of a post. It just blew my mind, when I asked it to test with tmux.</p></li><li><p>Yeah! I created 2 TUIs on that day. One is complete 90%) functional and here is the <a href="https://github.com/mr-destructive/gcp-log-explorer-tui">link</a>. The other one is janky, because the UI is too.</p></li><li><p>I loved this article. It gave me a good advice to test tuis since it can understand text, tmux has options to capture text from sessions, which just open a wide variety of programmable automation and testing.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://steipete.me/posts/2026/openclaw">Peter Steinberger to join OpenAI</a></p><ul><li><p>This is huge. It also is showing the rift building up between Anthropic and OpenAI. The one taking the advantage of the mistakes of the other. And OpenAI I must say has not placed a foot wrong in 2026. Anthropic on the other hand has ruined itself with a few already.</p></li><li><p>I take my words back for now, Anthropic was Gryffindor but it choose to be evil and should be in Slytherin. OpenAI I am not sure it is brave but so is Google. For now, OpenAI is Gryffindor for me. Brave and Generous, expensive yes but better from the competition.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://open.substack.com/pub/bkrm/p/notes-from-a-cto-14-desensitized?utm_campaign=post-expanded-share&amp;utm_medium=post%20viewer">Desensitized to AI Hype until tried Opus 4.5</a></p><ul><li><p>Yes,very well put. The gap in everything is wide. The shift of perceiving software is changed 180 degrees. There is wide gap of what code is generated and what is shipped, the knowledge of developers, the usage of models, the landscape of product, its all widening like crazy. </p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Watched</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/1SJGGUeEbQs">Opus and Codex Models</a></p><ul><li><p>Another banger! Sort of proving my experience too.</p></li><li><p>I was working with amp (it uses claude models in free tier with rate limits) for creating TUI for Clickup, I asked it a feature for opening the task when supplied with a link when opening the TUI. Like <code>clickuptui --link clickuptask-link</code>. It was not able to load or understand the things. It added the feature but was not working. I asked it to fix it, it was not working. It just removed the feature! Like what? It just removes the problem out of the way rather than untangling it.</p></li><li><p>Then I switched to codex and it solved the problem, slow yes but it did it.</p></li><li><p>Amazing how each of these types of LLMs are evolving.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/M-pkXr-qqII">Anthropic is a Cult</a></p><ul><li><p>More and more things are getting verified it seems. Anthropic is just on a brag mode. It thinks it is a superior or a pure-blood kind of race. Really they are wired about how they perceive intelligence.</p></li><li><p>I am annoyed by them now. They have good models, but the vibes are not feeling good.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/n1E9IZfvGMA">Dario Amodei - Dwarkesh Patel Podcast</a></p><ul><li><p>Cringe as hell! I feel a greed and haste in earning profit and not humanity in the sight. He gave a example of curing diseases, but has he thought what is the other side of this mess? They are sort of up to something which is not quite clear.</p></li><li><p>The idea of &#8220;<a href="https://www.darioamodei.com/essay/the-adolescence-of-technology">country of genuises in a datacenter</a>&#8220; is quite ambitious and good, but is the curing of disease the only task? Is it only to replace talented humans? Replace art with slop? I don&#8217;t like that thinking of automating the intelligence part. It just gives too much knowledge without our brains having the speed and capability to handle.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/6QryFk4RYaM">The real reason Anthropic built a Compiler</a></p><ul><li><p>This week is dunking on Anthropic and I will do it with heart. I also thought it was &#8220;from scratch&#8221;. Well, there are quite a lot of astericks forgotten by them.</p></li><li><p>Prime is right on the take away being, we now have agents that can coordinate for a task which can be weeks long, but Anthropic is suggesting something that causes panic and existential threat. It sound good on their words but if you just think it becomes melodrama once you see the details.</p></li></ul></li></ul><p>Enough Anthropic dunking, we need some other lab to step in and be a worthy crown for coding models. Deepseek V4 around the corner? Can it beat Claude for coding? Let&#8217;s see!</p><h2>Learnt</h2><ul><li><p>Agentic usage on development</p><ul><li><p>I understood on a deeper level to work with Agents.</p></li><li><p>Ask LLMs to ask question to you. That sounds wired but think for a moment. When you used to code by hand (back in the days you know), we developers used to ask questions and get answers by compiling the code, seeing the output, and iterating. Same is the case with LLMs, they need a opening to ask questions, they code, they run code, but where is their feedback? Letting them ask you questions gives them the context in a much better and concise way. It also forces you to think about the problem you are solving.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>We can use tmux capture session to get the screen captured for debugging tuis</p><ul><li><p>This was a great leaning from the blog I read and the playing around with LLMs, it was fun and exciting to see how to intuition is still vital in dealing with LLMs for coding.</p></li></ul></li></ul><h2>Tech News</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/gemini-models/gemini-3-1-pro/">Google releases Gemini 3.1 Pro</a></p><ul><li><p>This is quite quick. It is better from 3 Pro but still not significant. Its also I think the first time Google has release 0.1 increase in the model, it was either 0.0 or a 0.5. Something different.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://qwen.ai/blog?id=qwen3.5">Qwen 3.5</a></p><ul><li><p>It is quite neck in neck with Opus 4.5 and GPT 5.2 in terms of benchmarks.</p></li><li><p>Open source models are really keeping up with the closed sourced labs, I must admit there might come a time when that would have exceeded the closed source lab capability.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-sonnet-4-6">Claude Sonnet 4.6</a></p><ul><li><p>Meh! I don&#8217;t care about Anthropic anymore. Its just annoying now to think about them after understanding their vision.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://xcancel.com/ANI/status/2024349307835732347">Sam Altman and Dario refused to hold hands in AI Sumit</a></p><ul><li><p>This not stopping guys. That is clearly a rift, a rivalry, a gryffindor and slytherin rivalry. One taking the other. Tables turn pretty quickly.</p></li><li><p>That was embarrasing and quite evident that dario is some wiredo. lets call him that wiredo.</p></li></ul></li></ul><div><hr></div><p>That&#8217;s it from this Anthropic dunk and AI revolution week. I hope I come out strong in the coming months and weeks.</p><p>Happy Coding :)</p>