---
title: "Techstructive Weekly #84"
date: 2026-03-06
slug: techstructive-weekly-84
type: newsletter
status: published
source: newsletter
canonical_url: https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-84
description: "Taking a step back, preparing the leap, reading about AI revolution hitting on software among the other things read, watched, learnt and created in the week from 1st to 7th March 2026"
tags: ["newsletter", "substack"]
---

<h2>Week #84</h2><p>It was a life-changing week, for good or bad, not sure. But something is sure, I have made decisions that might change the coming months. Sometimes I get in a rut, especially since AIs have made it harder to think outside the box. Now is the right time to change gears.</p><p>I am excited. I have a wide open life, I feel like a free bird. I can flap my wings and choose the direction. I cannot be more privileged. I am taking time to learn things more as usual, but now, I think I will learn the old school way, hands-on, not agentic things and all. I need to level up.</p><p>Software is a field that demands constant adaptation, but this change is quite hard, every change is hard. We need to find a way through it, not around it. Let&#8217;s see what we have in the bag.</p><p></p><h3>Quote of the week</h3><blockquote><p>&#8220;If you(your life) are about to take a leap, you&#8217;ll need to take 2 steps back, you do it willingly or life pulls you back&#8221;</p><p>&#8212; Meet</p></blockquote><p>If you have been experiencing a setback, don&#8217;t fear or get scared or heartbroken. Get excited, life is preparing you for a leap of faith. Trust the timing of the universe, trust the direction, if you did everything right till now, consider it life&#8217;s intertwining to uplifit you, get to your destined place. I am not talking philosophically, it is science. If you want to jump, you&#8217;ll have to take two steps back, reflect and then act. You can&#8217;t jump from the current position, even if you can, you can&#8217;t move much further.</p><p>Things keep changing and it won&#8217;t be long before everything gets clear and you&#8217;d realize it was all working to make it fit together, they were puzzle pieces trying to fit.</p><p></p><h2>Read</h2><ol><li><p><a href="https://www.scottsmitelli.com/articles/you-dont-have-to/">You don&#8217;t have to do it if you don&#8217;t want to</a></p><ol><li><p>Man that is banger of a post, I just read 10% of it and was smiling and was in peace. content.</p></li><li><p>There is someone who understands this pain of working with AI.</p></li><li><p>I want to read this article, its too long, but I want to feel it. Weekends are for that.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://vickiboykis.com/2026/03/04/antidote/">Antidote</a></p><ol><li><p>The article has lived to its name. It truly has and is an antidote. Just read it. Read it I said.</p></li><li><p>Just do things like you used to do before AI, AI is just a tool, it is not necessary to shove it all the places and situations. Be candid, be original, make stuff just because you can.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://karpathy.github.io/2026/02/12/microgpt">MicroGPT</a></p><ol><li><p>This is beautiful! I used custom list of names of Pokemon, Places and LLM Model names.</p></li><li><p>This is so cool, I still don&#8217;t get it, I want to read the code, and build something different from it. So much to do, so little time.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://lemire.me/blog/2026/02/28/you-can-use-newline-characters-in-urls/">You can use newline characters in URLs</a></p><ol><li><p>This is wired, I never thought about it, does that really work? I can see this being used for Base64 encoded images.</p></li><li><p>Worth knowing. Better presentable HTML.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://x.com/naval/status/2028314493206585471">Is traditional software engineering dead - Naval Ravikant</a></p><ol><li><p>Nope, this is true.</p><blockquote><p>But software engineers still have two massive advantages on you. First, they think in code, so they actually know what&#8217;s going on underneath. And all abstractions are leaky. So when you have a computer programming for you&#8212;when you have Claude Code or equivalent programming for you&#8212;it&#8217;s going to make mistakes.</p></blockquote><ul><li><p>It gives me hope.</p></li><li><p>Not sure because, he is not a software developer, so cannot really fathom how he can commet those all things, but good points.</p></li></ul></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://carlkolon.com/2026/02/27/engineering-747-coding-agents/">747 and Coding Agents</a></p><ol><li><p>Really good comparison. I feel like a pilot than an engineer now. Really good.</p><p>Yes, the learning is becoming the most least focused thing.</p></li><li><p>Finally people realise that it is happening. The change is too big of a deal, and its just shaking the grounds of software like crazy.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://mina86.com/2026/pickle-should-be-a-war-crime/">Stop using Pickle</a></p><ol><li><p>Pickle and waste?</p></li><li><p>Ok I can understand the pain here. The pickle file is not readable except for that python program.</p></li><li><p>By using some other standard format, it can help in reusing of data</p></li></ol></li></ol><p></p><h2>Watched</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/9jgcT0Fqt7U">Peter Steinberger with OpenAI and OpenClaw</a></p><ul><li><p>He just knew a lot of software, so he can do it, I am not there yet, I need to write and read a lot more code to be there.</p></li><li><p>This is fine, I think, as long as we can understand what the code is getting generated, I would feel nice to just let AIs do it.</p><div id="youtube2-9jgcT0Fqt7U" class="youtube-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;videoId&quot;:&quot;9jgcT0Fqt7U&quot;,&quot;startTime&quot;:null,&quot;endTime&quot;:null}" data-component-name="Youtube2ToDOM"><div class="youtube-inner"><iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/9jgcT0Fqt7U?rel=0&amp;autoplay=0&amp;showinfo=0&amp;enablejsapi=0" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" gesture="media" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowautoplay="true" allowfullscreen="true" width="728" height="409"></iframe></div></div></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/p2aea9dytpE">Software Engineering is dead now</a></p><ul><li><p>Ah! This is bad. I didn&#8217;t realise it till wednesday. Things just hit like truck. Really sad for so many people, atleast they have 6 months, though the times are tricky, the hiring might be wired place. Its not the same, people have confusion on what actual software would mean in 1 year of time. I can hardly think what I will work with in the next month.</p></li></ul></li></ul><div id="youtube2-p2aea9dytpE" class="youtube-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;videoId&quot;:&quot;p2aea9dytpE&quot;,&quot;startTime&quot;:null,&quot;endTime&quot;:null}" data-component-name="Youtube2ToDOM"><div class="youtube-inner"><iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/p2aea9dytpE?rel=0&amp;autoplay=0&amp;showinfo=0&amp;enablejsapi=0" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" gesture="media" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowautoplay="true" allowfullscreen="true" width="728" height="409"></iframe></div></div><p></p><ul><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/CYjD9cpxT18">Did Kellogs do the math right?</a></p><ul><li><p>Nerd stuff. Really cool to see it.</p></li><li><p>Really, spheres can cover more surface area for filings than donut shapes, really intriguing. </p></li></ul><p></p><div id="youtube2-CYjD9cpxT18" class="youtube-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;videoId&quot;:&quot;CYjD9cpxT18&quot;,&quot;startTime&quot;:null,&quot;endTime&quot;:null}" data-component-name="Youtube2ToDOM"><div class="youtube-inner"><iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/CYjD9cpxT18?rel=0&amp;autoplay=0&amp;showinfo=0&amp;enablejsapi=0" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" gesture="media" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowautoplay="true" allowfullscreen="true" width="728" height="409"></iframe></div></div></li></ul><p></p><h2>Learnt</h2><ul><li><p>TCP Protocol. </p><ul><li><p>Yeah! I didn&#8217;t knew how it worked internally. I learnt that it:</p><ul><li><p>Opens a port for listening to clients</p></li><li><p>Client connects to the port with 3 way handshake</p><ul><li><p>SYN (share the client sequence number)</p></li><li><p>SYN-ACK (server recieves teh sequence number and sends its own sequence number)</p></li><li><p>ACK (client sends the server sequence number +1, indicating it recieved the servers sequence number)</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Read from the client body</p></li><li><p>Write to the client </p></li></ul></li><li><p>Its basically a protocol to communicate, it doesn&#8217;t define what to communicate with, the client can send anything. There are protocols built on top of it to do specific format request and responses like HTTP, Redis, SMTP and dozens of others.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Tail -f </p><ul><li><p>We can listen to file and it can automatically show the last 10 lines if there were any updates. Just wow, perfect for log analysis or monitoring</p></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><h2>Tech News</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://blog.google/innovation-and-ai/models-and-research/gemini-models/gemini-3-1-flash-lite/">Google releases Gemini 3.1 Flash lite</a></p><ul><li><p>This is a bold claim, that a cheaper and faster model is better than 2.5 Flash. Flash was a one of a kind shattering all records model when it launched last year. I am really looking to test it out on few things. If available on free tiers.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://openai.com/index/introducing-gpt-5-4/">OpenAI releases GPT 5.4</a></p><ul><li><p>Damm! OpenAI just keeps banging version bumps one after other. Every month they have something to release. Just wild.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2026/03/say-hello-to-macbook-neo/">Apple launches Macbook Neo</a></p><ul><li><p>Well! Now people would be seen with office and college laptops as Macbook Neo I guess, cheaper and premium look. Do they really care if video editing doesn&#8217;t work, probably not.</p></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><p>For more news, follow the <a href="https://buttondown.com/hacker-newsletter/archive/785/">Hackernewsletter</a> (#785th edition), and for software development/coding articles, join <a href="http://daily.dev/">daily.dev</a>.</p><div><hr></div><p>That&#8217;s it from this week. It was a tough one to digest, but now there is no turning back, oh I have already two steps back, time for a leap of faith and change. Cannot be more excited for the coming week, for what life has in the pack.</p><p></p><p>Happy Coding :)</p>