---
title: "Techstructive Weekly #85"
slug: techstructive-weekly-85
type: newsletter
canonical_url: https://techstructively.substack.com/p/techstructive-weekly-85
tags: ["newsletter", "substack"]
date: 2026-03-13
status: published
source: newsletter
description: "Building and studying deep backend systems and reading about AI-job coping, built s3g and crossposter agent among the other things read, learnt and built in the week from 8th to 14th March 2026"
hash: e08a1ac2f57541cc12d94692c2c9acbe3d7904c371c4d8599d3f429202cf0214
---
<h2>Week #85</h2><p>It was a lonely week. Trying harder then ever to survive. No work. Yeah! Hint hint. I am not at all bored and sad, but trying to gush out all the projects that I can at my disposal. I have a agent running all the time, I switch accounts if one gets exhausted with free trial, Codex(perfect yet lower models are a bit dumb), AMP (blazingly fast) and Gemini CLI (I hate it). </p><p>I am building new stuff, just trying out to be there. Its hard than ever to be a software developer. I never thought this will be it? Like I wasted my 5-7 years in learning the craft? I don&#8217;t know if it was all worth it. Seems its hanging with the mercy of the capabilities of an LLM call. Really sad times to be in.</p><p>Still hopeful, there are a lot of problems to solve yet! Humans are on the cusp of a make-or-break. World War 3 is looking imminent.</p><p></p><h3>Quote of the week</h3><blockquote><p>&#8220;To overcome the fear of failure, have the goal worth failing for&#8221;</p><p>&#8212; <a href="https://youtu.be/Z_F0Cy7Gm1Q?si=qGCulyXnvJpHo-1t&amp;t=5453">Paul J. Hutsey</a></p></blockquote><p>A goal worth failing for. Hit hard, doesn&#8217;t it? if you fail, your life was worth the effort. It might have given inspiration, a sense of hope for others to rise along with you. You might have failed, but have woken some dead people along the way, that is worth it. Its not sacrifice, its doing your part right. Its your responsibility to work for your own goals, no one is going to walk it for you. Yes, you are alone walking, but as we walk, the path appears, people come as if from thin air. Just take the step. Failure is not fatal, success is not final.</p><p></p><h2>Created</h2><ul><li><p>SQLite Static Site Generator (S3G): <a href="https://s3g.meetgor.com/">s3g.meetgor.com</a></p><ul><li><p>A SQLite Shell for querying my blog posts.</p></li><li><p>It also has html hydration from URL &gt; write the query &gt; view the results &gt; .share &gt; paste the link and view the full post in html</p></li><li><p>Just a side project that I wanted to build just becuase SQLite is everywhere and can be used to do anything. Also its&#8217;s a  good way to expose my content. I realise I have more than 800 posts.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Crossposter Agent: <a href="https://github.com/mr-destructive/crossposter-agent">github.com/mr-destructive/crossposter-agent</a></p><ul><li><p>Just extending the fun project I had 3 years ago for the crossposter shell script.</p></li><li><p>Converted that to a golang service and added AI to it.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>Revamping <a href="https://www.meetgor.com/">meetgor.com</a> site</p><ul><li><p>Added search and yearly archives</p></li><li><p>Pulling link-blog from the past year and newsletters</p></li><li><p>Fixed some issues with tagging and ui </p></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><h2>Read</h2><ol><li><p><a href="https://ezhik.jp/ai-slop-terrifies-me/">AI slop terrifies me</a></p><ol><li><p>Good enough? That&#8217;s a myth, in AI world, everyone is blinded by it. There is a 3 phase thing, &gt; let me try if ai is good &gt; oh this is GOOD, even GREAT, but good enough &gt; oh damm, we need a developer to fix it.</p></li><li><p>This is true to vibe coding, this is vibe coding, if you generate slop, you are a vibe coder by that I mean you don&#8217;t care about the thing that solves your problem you just care that the problem was solved. I don&#8217;t want or even like a bit about being that kind of person. If I was, I won&#8217;t be here writing this post.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://www.percepta.ai/blog/can-llms-be-computers">Can LLMs be computers</a></p><ol><li><p>A very, very cool post. I am intruiged that a transformer can itself run the code, or atleast become the computer, that is so powerful.</p></li><li><p>The phrase is quite substantial: &#8220;The key difference is that tool use is opaque: the model hands off control and receives a black-box answer. In-model execution is transparent: every intermediate step appears in the trace, and the model never leaves its own decoding loop.&#8221; Yeah, that could really help the transformers become more capable and resilient to tool errors.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://lr0.org/blog/p/gpt/">I am not consulting an LLM</a></p><ol><li><p>Banger.</p><blockquote><p>experience is where intellect actually gets trained</p></blockquote></li><li><p>Yes, LLMs don&#8217;t lie but they lie well enough, good enough. </p></li><li><p>This traces back to &#8220;are you willing to explore things&#8221; or &#8220;I just want the fucking work to be done&#8221;. If you are the former, LLMs might brain rot you and you&#8217;ll be back to normal. If you are a later, you will be a LLM maximalist. There might come a time, when both of them meet.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://howisfelix.today/">Why I put my whole life into a single database</a></p><ol><li><p>Mind Boggling. Like how did he manage to capture all of that? I can&#8217;t think of a tool for each activity that I do, that would be bizzare.</p></li><li><p>Maybe Apple tracks all of that? Safely of course but still that is a lot of data.</p></li><li><p>I am intruigued, there is a lot of stuff to see here. I am drawing some inspriation from it.</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://madalitso.me/notes/why-everyone-is-talking-about-filesystems/">Why everyone is talking about filesystems</a></p><ol><li><p>Interesting very interesting. The analogy of at protocol of social systems with agents context is really intriguing.</p></li><li><p>Actually this is really correct. The filesystem is really the crux why software has evolved if you see databases and CRUD apps. Everything is a file.</p></li><li><p>Skills are actually just md files, that I already said. How fascinating that just a few markdown files can change the way agents can behave. Someone just mentioned Moltbook, yeah!</p></li><li><p>Also, this is relatable to me because this week I built S3G, which is basically taking all my posts and dumping them to a single json or SQLite database, which is a single file. Wow!</p></li></ol></li><li><p><a href="https://mertol.substack.com/p/software-ate-the-world-now-ai-is">Software ate the world, now AI is eating the software</a></p><ol><li><p>Damm! This hits hard. Maybe true. But the point is change. Software is changing, the crux remains the same, to solve problems, AI address the how part, and not the why still. So, the tools with which you did your problem solving will evolve put the problems might still remain with increasing complexity.</p></li><li><p>This quote is correct here fits nicely: &#8220;Computers will still be, as Steve Jobs once put it a &#8220;bicycle for the mind&#8221; - just with completely new tools that don&#8217;y need to be explicitly programmed&#8221;</p></li><li><p>Ok, the last sentence had me in awe. Programming computers was never supposed to be a human job anyway, really? What about the 50 years of toil? Like you can&#8217;t call it hobby, its a field with research and lives poured in it. Cannot be wasted due to a pesky auto-complete bot.</p></li></ol></li><li><p>What do coders do after AI?</p><ol><li><p>Bang my head, please. This post just made me smile.</p><blockquote><p>More than anything else, what I hope people can remember is that all of the great things that people love about technology weren't created by the money guys, or the bosses who make HR decisions &#8212; they were created by the people who actually build things.</p></blockquote></li><li><p>Yes, there are hard parts, but it&#8217;s put in beautiful words and respectfully so. It is a reality, and the faster we accept, the better we position ourselves in the future.</p></li><li><p>The two groups that this post described, the 9to5 and the hobbyist, is intriguing, I don&#8217;t know where I fall. I am drawn by money, but I am here because of my interest in the first place. If money was not a reward, will I have been here, yes hell yes.</p></li><li><p>Layoffs, that part hurts a bit. Change is the only constant, but the writer mentioned that this change is the worst he has expeirenced. What about the new joiners, new grads for whom this was the only change they witnessed. I feel for them. Its tough. But its not doom and gloom, humans have found ways in toughest of times, and the humanity shall find that kindling hope again.</p></li></ol></li></ol><p></p><h2>Watched</h2><p></p><ul><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/d9T-S9ZO6ZE">Pewdiepie&#8217;s model beat ChatGPT?</a></p><ul><li><p>Whoa! That was amazing one. Bro just rickrolled Sam. </p></li><li><p>True signs of a grug brain developer. </p></li><li><p>The way he just tried and tried after failure is so inspiring, people still need motivation? This is the best video I have watched so far.</p></li></ul></li></ul><div id="youtube2-d9T-S9ZO6ZE" class="youtube-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;videoId&quot;:&quot;d9T-S9ZO6ZE&quot;,&quot;startTime&quot;:null,&quot;endTime&quot;:null}" data-component-name="Youtube2ToDOM"><div class="youtube-inner"><iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/d9T-S9ZO6ZE?rel=0&amp;autoplay=0&amp;showinfo=0&amp;enablejsapi=0" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" gesture="media" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowautoplay="true" allowfullscreen="true" width="728" height="409"></iframe></div></div><p></p><ul><li><p><a href="https://youtu.be/5n_utsAVI-g?">Zero Project ideas?</a></p><ul><li><p>I don&#8217;t know, that is very broad topic. I have a lot of ideas, but none of which crystalise into an actual product maybe</p></li><li><p>Maybe now I need to think that deeper. But building is something I loved, but LLMs seemed to have snatched that too from us.</p></li></ul></li></ul><div id="youtube2-5n_utsAVI-g" class="youtube-wrap" data-attrs="{&quot;videoId&quot;:&quot;5n_utsAVI-g&quot;,&quot;startTime&quot;:null,&quot;endTime&quot;:null}" data-component-name="Youtube2ToDOM"><div class="youtube-inner"><iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/5n_utsAVI-g?rel=0&amp;autoplay=0&amp;showinfo=0&amp;enablejsapi=0" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" gesture="media" allow="autoplay; fullscreen" allowautoplay="true" allowfullscreen="true" width="728" height="409"></iframe></div></div><p></p><h2>Learnt</h2><ul><li><p>In Websocket Protocol, the server doesn&#8217;t mask payload whereas the client has to.</p><ul><li><p>Because to avoid cache-hits on the payload if the message gets interpreted by the middle servers, it might never reach the actual server.</p></li><li><p>Really great insight, I am using ChatGPT daily to learn and study mode for certain topics that I want to dive deep, it gives a little paragraph that I need to answer, the perfect way to engage.</p></li></ul></li><li><p>We can embed data in a URL to hydrate a webpage</p><ul><li><p>I just built S3G and it can basically render pages just using the data in the URL as a state (title and content). This is the same thing used by excalidraw to encode data with sharable links.</p></li><li><p>This way we don&#8217;t have to query server for that data. Really a good piece of architecture design to remember. If the data is not sensitive you can save a round trip for the client to the server.</p></li><li><p>Here&#8217;s a demo: <a href="https://s3g.meetgor.com/public/render.html#payload=N4IgzgjgNiBcIGUCiAZJBhAKgAgFTYDEAlAeQFlsAHAezABcxsB3ACwFMAnN7OgSzqjcUASQDSSbAHIApEw79eAOwDm0ydhFlhOAIzZqAMwNg2dbACYQAGhABjalACuAW0Vg4AbRC8AJtfBOyv4mtnzUiv6UAIZ0LP58Amz+PjFJNnRRymAA+gBWYOH+zqZReQURNgBG1D4AntnOfgC6NhzUTO6wHh4AHACcNlBKANZgAPRyCioAtCx0zlDTlbWzUYo+07xg02xRYLyc02sbtuxRlIexbIrTPmyVjsrKSsrTtdSOHNNgYK9K0+YAAzmACs-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">s3 sample sharable url</a></p></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><h2>Tech News</h2><ul><li><p><a href="https://www.axios.com/2026/03/10/meta-facebook-moltbook-agent-social-network">Meta hires the duo behind Moltbook</a></p><ul><li><p>Wired, why that was just a slop show right?</p></li><li><p>Maybe the mindset of building was what got them at that place, that is not deniable but anyone could have built that, if one really needed it.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.reuters.com/technology/atlassian-lay-off-about-1600-people-pivot-ai-2026-03-11/">Atlassian to cut 10% workforce in pivot to AI</a></p><ul><li><p>This is coming, AI is taking and chipping in piece by piece and we don&#8217;t raise any bells yet.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://www.perplexity.ai/personal-computer-waitlist">Perplexity opens waitlist for Personal Computer</a></p><ul><li><p>Ok, this is just like claude cowork? Perplexity was ahead for a while, but I don&#8217;t think they have any moat anymore.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><a href="https://claude.com/blog/claude-builds-visuals">Anthropic releases Claude with the capability to generate visuals and interactive elements</a></p><ul><li><p>This is coming to every lab now. They are making it easier to learn with LLMs.</p></li><li><p>I don&#8217;t know why they want to shoe-horn LLMs in everything.</p></li></ul></li></ul><p></p><p>For more news, follow the <a href="https://buttondown.com/hacker-newsletter/archive/7856">Hackernewsletter</a> (#786th edition), and for software development/coding articles, join <a href="http://daily.dev/">daily.dev</a>.</p><div><hr></div><p>That&#8217;s it from a hard slogging weak, it feels like shouting in the void. Bad time passes is the slogan I hear not from anywhere, just within. Anyways, hope you are coping with AI too, if not you should.</p><p></p><p>Happy Coding :)</p><p></p>